You already know what a function is and how we build a basic function.
You already know that functions are blocks of code that you can invoke from anywhere in your code and
have them execute in different situations depending on the parameters we pass to them.
In this lecture, I want to show you how to make many functions interact with each other because it
is normal for programs to have several functions that do this.
So we can execute a function and use its result as a parameter of a different function.
And we're going to put it into practice with a little game called Pick the Stick.
You may already know it.
So one shows you four sticks in their fist.
You pick one of the sticks and if you get the shortest stick, then you lose and you have to take the
garbage out or do the dishes.
Well, our code is going to do that.
It's going to tell the user to pick one of four sticks and tell them if they get the shortest one or
if they're safe at this time.
Of course, we can't visually show this with our code right now, but we can simulate it by relaying
what happens.
The goal of this lecture is to show you the interaction between different functions and how we are going
to make one function pass an object to another.
So let's go to the code.
As we're going to generate a code that requires a lot of functions, let's first create kind of a script
about how to use with this code.
First, we're going to need an initial list, including the little sticks the user will need.
Then we need to create a function in charge of mixing the sticks so that they are not in order.
Otherwise, it will be easy to identify which is which.
After that, we'll need another function that asks the user to choose one of the four numbers.
And finally, once the user has chosen their number, another function is needed to check.
That's to check the player's try, whether it is the first, second, third or fourth, and who's going
to have to wash the dishes or not.
Remember that we use the hash sign to write the line which will not be executed.
That way we can write inoffensive comments that won't damage the program and will help us understand
the functioning of our code.
So far, so good, right?
So now we know how to proceed.
To begin with, we have to create an initial list, which is very simple.
This list is called sticks, and we'll put a sequence of numbers from 1 to 4, all to make it even funnier.
A graphic representation with dashes.
The smallest stick is going to have just one dash and the next one, two dashes.
Then we have another one with three dashes, and finally, one with four.
These are the four elements we have in our list.
Let's move on to the next step, which will make all the little sticks up.
May I remind you that we use the shuffle method to mix, but this method will not be present within
our library if we forget to import it first.
So at the top of our code we can type that from random the class with the shuffle method import and
then we right here shuffle.
In case you don't remember how to write it or look for it, just press control and the spacebar at the
same time.
And you will see all the options.
And here you have shuffle so that you can import it.
So we're ready to mix the list.
If we did it outside the function, we would have to simply type shuffle and then type in parentheses
the name of our list, which is sticks.
And that's all.
Keep in mind, the shuffle won't send you anything back.
We can't put it within a variable.
Shuffle only has a function there and would be better to include it inside a function to obtain the
mix the sticks outcome.
And we do it in the following way.
The function may be called mix within its parameters.
Obviously the function will need for us to pass a list to it.
That's the name for now, a variable that later will be the occupied by a list we pass to it, in this
case sticks.
Will have two very simple lines in the function.
One saying Shuffle, which is responsible for mixing the list that has been passed and that will later
return list with a different name.
Our second step is done and to verify it is working properly.
We're going to call mix and pass sticks to it and print this to be able to see it on the screen.
So let's execute it from run, run and interact function to see here that our list appears randomly
every time we execute it.
Great.
It works.
So we could delete that line.
Whose function is just to verify and move on to the third step.
Ask the player to play and try their luck.
That's how we'll entitle this function.
Try your look, which won't require any parameter.
So let's go straight into the function where we need to do what?
Ask the user to pick a number between one and four.
We will store in a variable the number they choose.
So the variable will be called try and we'll initialize empty in order to save their the player's choice.
We're going to ask the user a number and to make sure the number they pick is not any number or letter,
but a number between one and four.
We put this command within a while that verifies whether what has been introduced is right or not.
So while try is not on a list with the numbers ranging from one to 2 to 3 and four like strings, what
the system is going to do is to ask the user to choose a number between one and four again by means
of an input stored in the variable try.
Here we type colon and a space for the user to have enough room to write their choice.
So you may wonder why I'm writing the numbers as strings and not as integers.
Well, because what?
The only user types, although it is a number, it will be a string.
So the easiest thing to do is to check directly with the strings before converting what the user typed
to an integer.
The thing is that this loop is going to repeat itself as many times as necessary until the user enters
the right number.
Once they get out of the loop after having entering a right number, it's going to send us back the
number, but not as it appears the number will be cast to an integer.
Now we have to check whether this function works or not by saving the try one just to put a name to
it, to the invocation of try your look and then let's print, try one.
And here we have the request.
Choose a number between one and four.
I write ten.
Ask me the same again.
I type five and again now I type R and the same happens once again.
Now I'm try typing one, but with written letters it doesn't work.
But if I type three now it does print three because I've asked it to do so outside of the function and
we've gotten out of the code.
So we're going to delete these two lines here to work in an orderly manner that lets you follow how
your code works.
Here you'll see that alongside each of these functions you have these buttons which allows you to compress
what is in the code.
So don't panic.
It hasn't disappeared.
It is simply compressed here and you can open it again to see it better.
However, look here we have everything more organized.
Our three steps already completed.
Now let's continue with the last step, which is to check whether the users try coincides with the shortest
stick or not.
We'll call this function, verify, try, and it will require information in order to carry out its
task.
Since this function is going to check, it needs a list, which is the original list containing the
elements, and it also needs the try the user has had.
Remember that these are internal variables because they are parameters.
We'll see where to get them from.
Now we're going to go to verify.
We start with an F which checks where the list in its location equal to try minus one Y minus one because
lists are index from zero onwards.
I mean, our list will have the indices zero, one, two and three, while the user will enter the number
one, two, three or four.
So by writing minus one, we can transform the user's try into a number with a unit lower than the one
that has been entered that way, making it match the index numbers.
Am I clear?
If that users try coincides with the value of the shortest stick, the one having only one dash colon,
it will inform about its printing here.
Something like wash the dishes.
Otherwise, if the user got any of the other two sticks it will print.
This time you are safe.
Once he is over here, we are going to print the stick to let the user know which stick they got.
So we write a string literal that reads you got and then we call list in its location as we have already
seen.
Try minus one.
Now we have a last function.
This one does not send anything back because it is the last one of our code.
It just prints on screen.
The result we can close it.
Though we cannot check it because we need a result from Try Your Luck because it needs a try.
And this is the central part of our lesson.
We'll see how this function will need the results of the other function to work properly.
Here is where we're going to write our code, because so far this code is useless.
See what happens when our executed.
Nothing happens, although it is full of functions because we haven't invoked any function yet.
It is simply here to be used whenever we want it.
And that's exactly what we're going to do now.
Let's start by giving it the command of mixing the sticks up.
So we'll store the invocation of the function mix in mixed sticks, to which we'll pass sticks.
This is already a line to be executed and showed on screen.
Then let's call a second function, which is try your look.
We will store it in a variable named selection and it will have try your look, which doesn't have parameters.
And finally, we're going to call, verify, try, which doesn't need to be stored in any variable since
it doesn't return anything.
So keep in mind it requires two parameters.
First, the mix sticks list.
That is to say, the outcome of having mixed the sticks.
And the second parameter is try, which we got from the selection variable if you remember, and this
is the interesting part, selection contains the result of this function.
So it is paramount for the functions to be executed in order otherwise verify.
Try would not have anything for the selection.
So now we can execute it and it tells us to pick a number between one and four.
I'll choose five.
It's invalid.
I choose one this time and this is my result.
I can't escape my destiny.
I'm doomed to wash the dishes.
I'm bound to always pick the shortest stick.
So I'm going to honor my promise and do the dishes.
And in the meantime, you can solve the activities that follow.
I'll be waiting for you in our next lesson.
See you there.